Several years ago, I had the pleasure of co-founding myneighborhood.com,
which was a social network for neighborhoods.
I was also the principal engineer.
So you can imagine the embarrassment when I saw a random post on
Facebook complaining that the site had been down for the entire weekend.
We were a fast-pace startup in those days with lots of
pressure to compete and push out new features.
But we left out one of
the most important components a production system could have, monitoring.
If we had done it right,
my team would have gotten an alert at the moment the site was down,
or even better, we would have gotten some alerts with
warning signs before it even went down in the first place.
In the case of myneighborhood.com,
it took months to regain confidence of our users.
It was a lesson that I learned deeply and completely.
My current company had a client a few years ago who was developing a tool to help
facilitate an important process that only happened once a year.
The application seemed to work from the user's perspective,
but when the administrators viewed their very important data in Salesforce,
they couldn't see certain extremely important fields.
The developers looked around for the issue and code for way too long.
The client got impatient and looked at the application logs himself.
My client, a non-technical businessman,
found the issue in five minutes. Lesson learned.
Having plenty of log data does you no good if you don't use it.
My goal for you in this lesson is to help you avoid situations like
this and be a better Cloud developer than I was in those days.
In this lesson, we will talk about
the new capabilities monitoring gives us as Cloud developers,
discuss some monitoring tools that are available on the market.
We're going to talk about one of the monitoring tools,
which is called Prometheus.
That's the tool we're going to be focusing on.
We're going to take some time and install and configure Prometheus,
we'll talk about various data sources that you can add to Prometheus.
We're going to discuss how to get started
analyzing and monitoring the data that you have,
and we'll learn about alerts and how to set them up.
It's time to get started, so let's roll.